Permit inferring Self for unannotated self (#1860)
python/typing: docs/spec/annotations.rst

Annotating instance and class methods
-------------------------------------

In most cases the first argument of instance and class methods
(conventionally named ``self`` or ``cls``) does not need to be annotated.

If the argument is not annotated, then for instance methods it is

> assumed to have the type of the containing class or :ref:`Self
> <self>`, and for class methods the type object type corresponding to
> the containing class object or ``type[Self]``.

Reviewer: I don't think it is accurate to make an explicit equivalence here between the type `Self` and "the type of the containing class". This is not actually what the specification for `Self` says: `Self` is not "the type of the containing class," it is "a typevar with a bound of the containing class". This distinction is important for how the `Self` type is handled when used in other arguments, and in inheritance cases. 

I suggest we simply don't attempt a mini-definition of the meaning of `Self` here, and allow the `Self` spec to handle this in depth.

```suggestion
assumed to have the type :ref:`Self <self>`, and for class methods ``type[Self]``.
```

Reviewer: Oh! I see how that could be the interpretation of the "or" here. If that's the intention, then I suggest we make it a bit more explicit. (I'll make a separate suggested edit, since it would involve one more line than I included in this one.)

Reviewer: Personally I think inferring `Self` is the better option here, and we could also consider just specifying that, but I see that may be a bigger change than was intended in this PR.

> If the argument is not annotated, then for instance methods it is
> assumed to have the type of the containing class or :ref:`Self
> <self>`, and for class methods the type object type corresponding to
> the containing class object or ``type[Self]``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the argument is not annotated, then for instance methods it may be
inferred to have either the type of the containing class, or the type :ref:`Self
<self>`. For class methods it may be inferred to have either the type object
type corresponding to the containing class object, or ``type[Self]``.
```

-------------------------------------

In most cases the first argument of class and instance methods
(conventionally named ``self`` or ``cls``) does not need to be annotated.

If the argument is not annotated, then for instance methods it is
assumed to have the type of the containing class or :ref:`Self
<self>`, and for class methods the type object type corresponding to
the containing class object or ``type[Self]``. For example, in class
``A`` the first argument of an instance method has the implicit type
``A``. In a class method, the precise type of the first argument

> cannot be represented using the available type notation.

Reviewer 2: I'm not 100% sure what this last sentence means.

I think `type[Self]` is a fairly precise type - it's a type variable bound above by `type[<current-class>]` but can be narrowed on callsites where we know more.

Author: Yeah, that sentence is from PEP 484, it confused me as well. I thought it was maybe talking about the usual thing where args to `cls(...)` are hopeless, but I don't really know

Reviewer 3: Yes, that sentence makes no sense to me either, I think we should remove it.

Reviewer 4: Except for the last sentence, I think it looks reasonable. 

I do think the spec should eventually be updated to mandate that `self` has the implied type `Self` and `cls` has the implied type `type[Self]`. Many important use cases involving the `Self` type break if this isn't the case. In retrospect, PEP 673 (which introduced the `Self` type) should have specified this IMO. But if you'd prefer to hold off on that change, then your proposed wording seems fine.
